Viviane Clay: As usual, I'll start with the shoutouts to the community. Since I started last month reordering things, I'll begin with the more significant contributions and then move to some of the interesting interactions on this course. We had several PRs to our codebase this month. One thing that's usually a good starting point for people who want to contribute to Monty is addressing some of the rough linting rules we're currently ignoring, which is basically our code format checker. It's a good starting point because it doesn't require understanding the whole algorithm, but you can make valuable contributions, drive our goals further, and get familiar with our code review process.

For instance, Carver made several PRs addressing lint rules, a refactor removing a function, and another refactor on how we use the OmniGlot dataset. This moved from addressing rough rules to refactoring code and making functional improvements.

MFME also made several PRs, again targeting some of the rough rules we're currently ignoring. Agent Rafe, who had already picked up a larger chunk of work on our future work roadmap, is working to simplify the simulator protocol. This was something Tristan and Will had prototyped during the Focus Week in Brighton but couldn't continue, so we posted the videos online. Agent Ref saw it and volunteered to start working on this task, making several larger and smaller PRs toward that goal, including refactors in different places, simplifying code, and removing an old environment we weren't using anymore. Thanks for working on that.

There are also some projects we've heard about on this course. Zachary is working on an undergraduate final year project, trying to use Monty in a robot to recognize objects, and shared an update on the plan for that. This is still in the early stages, but Carver posted recently about addressing another item on our future work roadmap, which is about the way we're currently giving special treatment to off-object observations. Since we're in a simulator with an empty void that doesn't exist in the real world, it's a pretty involved task, so we'll have to see how to best address it.

There were several interesting discussions on this course. For instance, Agent Ref shared a summary of a paper by Google, highlighting the main points and how it relates to the Thousand Brains Project, which is really useful. When people share papers like that, we don't have to scour everything happening in the space ourselves, and it's nice to hear from someone who understands our project how it relates and where the overlaps are. Carver posted questions and ideas around inferring and learning non-rigid objects, like a rope or a napkin, and liquids, leading to interesting discussion. Andreas posted a PDF with thoughts on how Thousand Brains Theory relates to other ideas, which also sparked discussion. There was another discussion between Xavier and others, specifically about representations in Layer 6, how locations could be represented, and how our thinking has changed over the years, with Jeff replying several times and giving up-to-date thoughts on those questions.

Helping others: Agent Ref has been in this category several months in a row. Someone asked about exporting our documentation as a PDF and shared a Python script to download the Markdown files.

There were several first-time posts. We have an introductions category on our forum where people can introduce themselves. For instance, Carver joined the project, introduced himself, made some PRs, and started interesting discussions. Andreas also introduced himself; he's the one who posted the PDF document. Oscar from Melbourne introduced himself as well. Welcome to the forum to the three of you, and an invitation to anyone else joining to introduce yourself in this category. We're always happy to hear about who's interested in the project. On social media, we appreciate anyone sharing the project, mentioning us, or tagging us in posts that might be interesting for our project. A big thank you to anyone who filled out our poll about what the next community event should look like or what would be most useful. That feedback was really helpful, and we used it to craft our new community event, which will be happening on December 17th, in about two weeks, at 7pmâ€”oh, no, NAMPST?

I took that screenshot here. It's called Meet Monty 2026, Reverse Engineering Intelligence. We'll give an update on all the cool and interesting developments from the past year. There's been a lot of progress since the last symposium last December, and we'll provide a high-level overview of all aspects of the project. You'll hear from everyone on our team, get to meet us, ask questions at the end, and even if someone hasn't heard the previous symposium or read anything about the project, it will still be an interesting event and a great entry point. Feel free to forward this invitation to anyone who might be interested.