Viviane Clay: I'll start with the shoutouts to the community. This month was pretty busy for me, and I took some PTO, so I haven't had time to check the forum the past two weeks. Hopefully I'm not missing anything, but if I did, I'll mention those people next month.

We've had more PRs from Agent Rev, who finalized the simulator protocol cleanup. During our Brighton retreat, Tristan and Will prototyped this on a separate fork of Monty, and there was an issue that the protocol should be reduced. Tristan outlined a bunch of changes that would need to be made and said it was a lot of work, so no one had to sign up for all of it, but Agent Drive did sign up for all of it.

Jeff: Woohoo

Viviane Clay: And completed it.

Jeff: Wow.

Viviane Clay: This was the last PR that was merged last week. I asked what's next, and Tristan pointed out another related part that could be done next, and there's already an open PR for that. Thanks a lot for all these great changes and for still being interested. For those who enjoy these kinds of things, like me, there's a short video of checking off this item from the roadmap. Very satisfying.

Jeff: Is it...

Viviane Clay: Check things off.

We also had more PRs from MeiMe, reducing MyPy errors and some refactoring.

There were a lot of PRs from Carver—actually two slides full—basically addressing rough linting rules and some fixes and refactors on various parts of the code. Thanks a lot for all those.

Jeff: Nice.

Viviane Clay: After the community event, and also a few before, we had several new introductions on the forum. Welcome to Daniel, Timothy, Bryce, Ash, Andreas, and Sergio. Thanks for joining the forum and introducing yourselves.

Really happy to see your interest. There were more introductions, including from Janius and Avner. It was the month of new introductions on the forum.

If anyone else is interested, I think this is a great way to get started—just introduce yourself, your interests, and if you're interested in contributing to any part of the project, or if you have questions or a particular part you find interesting, that's a great way to get some pointers from the team and others on the forum.

There were also a couple of first-time posts. One person shared interactive visualizations, and there was an interesting post about ideas for modeling deformations. It was a problem we discussed in a research meeting about deformation from a circle to an egg and back, and how that could be modeled and learned.

Someone shared a paper on our forum.

There was another interesting post that started in an email thread and then moved over to the forum, so everyone can follow along, about solid brain theory and applying Monty to text understanding.

There was an interesting post around language and the mind.

Bryce shared a 6-minute explainer video condensing some of our longer videos into playlists. There was another post about learning categories of objects and some thoughts about attention.

More interesting posts included one from Agent Rev with ideas around Monty, and a post from Rich about predictive error processing and sensitivity, and some questions about references for grid cell papers in response to one of our videos about grid cells.

Zach is building a robot using Monty as part of his thesis. He made a short 2-minute explainer video for one of his courseworks and shared it on LinkedIn. It's a really nice high-level overview of Feldenbrian's theory.

Mount Preet wrote a blog post about Monty and shared it on LinkedIn. Danish shared a picture of himself watching Jeff's presentation from the meetup. Thanks to anyone who's sharing the project, writing blog posts, or producing videos about it. It's a great way to help us spread the word.