Welcome to our YouTube channel. I'm Viviane Clay, director of the Thousand Brains Project. For the past 20 years at Numenta, we've been working to reverse engineer the neocortex based on neuroscience. About three years ago, we reached a point where we could start building a system based on these principles. Since then, it has been an internal project at Numenta. In June 2024, we received a grant from the Gates Foundation and decided to make the project fully open source. As part of that, we want to start releasing our meeting recordings again, as Numenta used to do. In addition to current meeting recordings, we also want to publish our past meeting recordings to show how we got to where we are today. This is a significant task, as we have over 200 hours of meeting recordings. We grouped these recordings into three categories. First, core meetings, which are more polished presentations and key milestones in the project's development. At the beginning of each video, I'll give a brief introduction with context to help you follow along. Second, brainstorming meetings, which are unpolished and unedited, giving you a chance to observe our research meetings. Third, review meetings, where we discuss other people's research and review topics related to this project. We'll start posting videos in these three categories regularly. Let us know what you think of this organization and share any feedback or content you'd like to see. Don't forget to subscribe to this channel to get notified when we post videos, and follow us on social media like Twitter or LinkedIn. Looking forward to seeing you soon. Cheers